---
layout: "post"
title: "Rails 5.1 System Tests"
tags: [rails, edge-rails, testing]
---

So the thing that I geeked out over the hardest when sharing the release notes
for Rails 5.1 with my team was the idea of baked in Capybara integration for
system tests, which can handle the testing of JavaScript functionality and all
of its associated wonky database management havoc.

So Rails 5.1 starts with a new test helper file:

**test/application_system_test_case.rb**

```ruby
require 'test_helper'

class ApplicationSystemTestCase < ActionDispatch::SystemTestCase
  driven_by :selenium, using: :chrome, screen_size: [1400, 1400]
end
```

So by default now Rails is shipping with system tests that we can use to test
JavaScript behavior, without adding `gem 'database_cleaner'` to our Gemfile or
worrying about database cleaning strategies. It uses Selenium Webdriver by
default, but offers support for headless drivers such as Poltergeist and Webkit.
The default browser is Chrome - which is at odds with Selenium's default of
Firefox because Selenium cannot keep up with Firefox's updates.

There's a new test directory **test/system**, where we can write our first
system test to inherit from `ApplicationSystemTestCase`. I'm testing
registration functionality in my Little Library application that I wrote about
in a [previous blog
post](https://wendybeth.github.io/posts/exploring-rails-5-1-with-webpacker).

**test/system/user_profile_test.rb**

```ruby
require 'application_system_test_case'

class UserProfileTest < ApplicationSystemTestCase
  test "registering as a new user" do
    visit new_registration_path

    fill_in 'Email', with: 'test@user.com'
    fill_in 'Password', with: 'password'
    fill_in 'Password Confirmation', with: 'password'
    click_on 'Create User'

    assert_text 'Successfully registered.'
  end
end
```

I had a couple of problems getting this to run. The first was that I initially
had `gem 'capybara', '~> 2.7.0'` in my Gemfile. That blew up because it could
not find the file 'minitest/capybara' which is required by
`ActionDispatch::SystemTestCase`. I had to change the line to `gem 'capybara',
'~> 2.13.0'` to get my next error.

Here, I had a problem with ChromeDriver. When I ran the test, it opened up
Chrome to a blank white screen, and then timed out and gave me an `EOFError`. I
ended up updating ChromeDriver:

```
$ brew unlink chromedriver
$ brew install chromedriver
```

And my test ran!

```
$ bundle exec rake test:system
=> # Running:
=>
=> Puma starting in single mode...
=> * Version 3.8.2 (ruby 2.2.2-p95), codename: Sassy Salamander
=> * Min threads: 0, max threads: 1
=> * Environment: test
=> * Listening on tcp://0.0.0.0:61508
=> Use Ctrl-C to stop
=> .
=> Finished in 3.145245s, 0.3179 runs/s, 0.3179 assertions/s.
=>
=> 1 runs, 1 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips
```

So it's starting up its own server, which manages its own connection to the
database. Again, I'm having a hard time getting over the fact that I don't have
to worry about that myself (I have a series of blog posts in the works which
covers how Rails tests interact with the test database, in which I did a lot of
research in order to understand what was going on behind the scenes - this has
all been abstracted away! Ah!).

I ended up writing another test for my login functionality. It caught a mistake
in a way I was not expecting:

{% include image.html path="rails51-systemtest-failure-screenshot.png"
path-detail="rails51-systemtest-failure-screenshot.png" alt="A System Test
Failure Screenshot" %}

This is thanks to a helper module included in `SystemTestCase` -
`ActionDispatch::SystemTesting::TestHelpers::ScreenshotHelper`. The method
`take_failed_screenshot` seems to be responsible here, as you can read at the
[EdgeAPI
docs](http://edgeapi.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionDispatch/SystemTesting/TestHelpers/ScreenshotHelper.html).

Happy coding. :)
